

#  70+ example project pestel

<!-- TOC tocDepth:2..3 chapterDepth:2..6 -->

- [2.1.1. Political factors](#211-political-factors)
- [2.1.2. Technological factors](#212-technological-factors)
- [2.1.3. Social factors](#213-social-factors)
- [2.1.4. Economic factors](#214-economic-factors)
- [2.1.5. Legal factors](#215-legal-factors)
- [2.1.6. Environmental factors](#216-environmental-factors)

<!-- /TOC -->

## 2.1.1. Political factors

Major political factor that would affect the FinTech industry is quite improbable, yet important to consider. If the USA stops disclosing their economic data to external users, news-related resources such as ours would have to be re-wired in order to gather data from other sources. In a similar way, the FinTech industry would be affected in case of an unexpected political instability in countries, whose situation is directly linked to stock, currency, or commodity price trends. In addition to that, a clear example of how government regulations would affect our field is an ongoing battle between SEC and Ripple Labs [10]. SEC has filed an action against Ripple Labs back in December 2020, alleging that they raised over 1.3$ billion through, quote: ”unregistered digital asset security offering”. Cryptocurrencies are of massive power in today’s world, and there would be some major changes in all markets and even some people’s lives if this asset would become banned or properly regulated [11].

## 2.1.2. Technological factors

One of the main technological factors that would affect our decisions are inventions of new sentiment analysis and topic modelling algorithms that are more advanced in multiple aspects than the algorithms we are currently using. Alternatively, we would have to upgrade our hardware to newer versions every time novel hardware technologies enter the market. In addition to that, factors such as increasing amount of massive cyber attacks per year (Figure 1) [12] would force our team to think more about cyber security side of our application, or about fake news detection, to either avoid breaches that would result, for example, in intruders posting misinformation on our platform, or our app gathering fake news from major sources that resulted from breaches in their systems. It is also important to mention DeepFake technology, since it has become incredibly realistic, it could also potentially result in fake news being present on major sources without any computer hacking, but with a lot of social engineering involved. Figure 1. Cyber Attack incidents chart. 

## 2.1.3. Social factors

One of the primary trends concerning social attitudes towards emerging technologies in FinTech such as cryptocurrencies, are currently ubiquitous crypto scams and other illegal instances that are caused by a severe lack of proper legal regulations [13]. As these news storms the media, more and more people could lose faith in this technology or abandon it for good. It is impossible to predict the psychology of the market participants, but it is surely changing on a daily basis without any visible trajectory. It is important to mention that the entire FinTech field has partially evolved around various cryptocurrency projects and thus, it is extremely reliant on it. This study [14] of a group of students shows that 60.3% of respondents understand the inevitability of development of technologies associated with electronic money, and at the same time, a quarter (26%) of those 9 participants were confident that in the next 10 years cryptocurrencies would be issued by the state and would replace physical money and after 5 years, most of the stores which they shop in will accept payments in Bitcoin (28% of respondents). This shows that the belief or other strong attitudes towards cryptocurrencies are not presented to a high degree. Results in this paper have some ambiguity in relation to future attitudes of these participants towards cryptocurrencies. There cannot be a clear picture of what will come next for cryptocurrencies from a social point of view, but it will certainly affect the entire FinTech industry. 

## 2.1.4. Economic factors

Major economic factors that carve out an opportunity to enter the FinTech market is the rise of disposable incomes for households in the UK (Figure 2)[15], and relatively low interest rates in 2021 (Figure 3) [16]. These parameters might indicate that the UK is currently in the expansion phase of the business cycle, where consumers possess finances to buy more products and invest in the stock market, leading to economic growth. However, one cannot ignore that Covid-19 has disrupted the normal business cycle, leading to the formation of a mini-cycle [17] with a quick decline and steep recovery. It is important to monitor the final quarter of the year to determine whether the economy is mid-cycle or at peak. For some countries like the US, this occurrence produced a massive surge in start-ups [18] with 4.4 million businesses started this year, which is a 20% increase from the year before. Similarly, intellectual property investment, such as software, and, similarly, FinTech, has accelerated during this pandemic and is expected to remain strong for the next few years, which suggests that projects in this area might have greater support. On the other hand, pandemic-related shortages caused massive hikes in costs for businesses, to which they reacted by raising both their wages and prices. This creates an inflationary spiral, which, in turn, may lead to an increase in interest rates to limit demands, eventually causing recession and rise in unemployment [19]. Higher interest rates can affect the funding for the upcoming startups, leading to slower development. 10 Figure 2. Disposable incomes of the UK population. Figure 3. Interest rates in the UK. When it comes to cryptocurrency, its rise has created its own industry. “Blockchain, the underlying technology behind cryptocurrency, has slowly moved into the mainstream.”[20] This includes messaging apps, vehicle leasing and sales, cloud computing, visual arts and the government and public sector administration. “The number of jobs in the Blockchain industry increased from just over 1,000 in 2016 to over 4,000 in 2017.”[20] As cryptocurrency gains consumer confidence and with that, legitimacy, it continues to be legalised in the developing world. This will lead to further expansion through global 11 investment, creating more jobs, positively impacting economic growth, internationally.

## 2.1.5. Legal factors

The major factor behind FinTech related legislation is the exponentially growing crypto-market, having a market cap of more than $2 trillion as of 2021 (Figure 3) [21]. Despite having this much influence on the entire world, regulations and legal framework, concerning cryptocurrencies, are yet to be established. These aspects result in innumerable illegal activities and scams being executed yearly. According to the Federal Trade Commission Consumer Sentinel, from October 2020 to March 31, 2021, reports filed under the category “crypto-related scams” almost reached 7,000 people with a combined loss of more than $80 million [22]. Lately, because of these issues, the most frequent topic for US lawmakers and government agencies has indeed been the question of cryptocurrency regulation. Of course, once these strict, government controlled regulations take place all over the world, with cooperation of multiple economies, it would severely impact the overall crypto-market. A clear example of such an occasion is initial coin offerings, which use cryptocurrencies, being banned in China, to prevent many illegal activities including money laundering [23]. Figure 3. Global crypto market. 12

## 2.1.6. Environmental factors

Central to the fast-growing world of financial technology is cryptocurrency. To optimise profits, cryptocurrency miners are exploiting low-cost electricity and permissive policy. This is negatively impacting local inhabitants and creating environmental hazards (Figure 4). “Depending on the energy source, researchers estimate that  crypto-mining can produce 3-15 million tonnes of global carbon emissions.”[24] Although the public narrative on the environmental impact of mining cryptocurrency has been predominantly negative it is not entirely the case. It depends heavily on where the energy source is coming from. In Canada for example, a large amount is generated by renewable energy sources compared to China, where it is mainly fossil fuels. Regulation is required to “mitigate crypto-mining activities’ impact on the public energy sector”[24]. Incentive needs to be placed on using renewable energy as a source for cryptocurrency mining to reduce its environmental impact. Figure 4.